
                                   10
                                 CAKES
                           HUSBANDS LIKE BEST
                     _FROM SPRY’S RECIPE ROUND-UP!_




           _“Here they are—the 10 cakes husbands like best!”_
                                  says _Aunt Jenny_


    [Illustration: {Aunt Jenny}]

When I recently asked women to send me recipes for the cakes their
husbands like best, I expected to get a lot of good ideas. But I never
dreamed they’d arrive by the truckload! I’ve been simply snowed
under—thousands and thousands of wonderful recipes!

When all the recipes were sorted and listed, we had what amounts to a
real popularity poll. Certain kinds of cake proved to be “husbands’
favorites,” time and again, all over the country!


                          _They’re ALL hits!_

So we took the best recipes we could find for the ten kinds of cake
wives said their husbands like best. We checked them for easy making as
well as luscious eating ... and here they are! They’re tested, they’re
sure-fire and you’ll find they make the most delicious cakes any husband
could ever ask for.


                  _And all sure successes with Spry!_

Of course, since they’re Spry cakes, you’ll find they’re all higher,
lighter, better-tasting! For Spry is homogenized, pre-creamed to mix
more easily with dry ingredients. And Spry is the only kind of
shortening specially made to combine with the liquids your cake recipes
call for. That’s why your Spry cakes are so high ... so light ... so
velvety-textured. _You’ll_ bake a better cake, _be_ a better cook, with
Homogenized Spry.


                      _Which one will HE choose?_

And now you can run your own popularity poll—bake each one of these ten
beauties, and see which wins with HIM. Every one of them will win you
compliments, and among them he’ll find his favorite cake!




                         Chocolate Rapture Cake


    [Illustration: Chocolate Rapture Cake]

  Oven temperature: 350°F. (moderate)
  Baking time: 25-30 min.
  Yield: 2 round 9″ layers

Sift ... 1¾ cups sifted cake flour, 1½ cups sugar, ¾ teaspoon salt, ½
      teaspoon double acting baking powder[1], ¾ teaspoon soda into
      mixing bowl

Add ... ½ cup Homogenized Spry, 3 ounces melted chocolate, 1 cup thick
      sour milk or buttermilk, 1 teaspoon vanilla

Beat ... 200 strokes (2 min. by hand or on mixer at low speed). Scrape
      bowl and spoon or beater.

Add ... 2 unbeaten eggs

Beat ... 200 strokes (same as above)

Stir in ... 1 cup cut-fine coconut

Pour ... into 2 round 9″ Sprycoated layer pans 1¼″ deep

Bake ... until cake tests done

Cool ... and remove from pans, see inside back cover.

Spread ... Tawny Satin Frosting (p. 12) between layers and on top and
      sides.

Dribble ... melted and cooled mixture of ½ oz. chocolate and ½ teaspoon
      Spry around rim of cake, letting a few “ribbons” trickle down
      sides.




                         Spicy Prune Whip Cake


    [Illustration: Spicy Prune Whip Cake]

  Oven temperature: 360°F. (moderate)
  Baking time: 30-35 min.
  Yield: two 8″ round layers

Sift ... 2 cups sifted cake flour, 1⅓ cups sugar, 2 teaspoons double
      acting baking powder[2], ¼ teaspoon soda, ½ teaspoon cinnamon, ½
      teaspoon nutmeg, ½ teaspoon allspice, 1 teaspoon salt into mixing
      bowl

Add ... ½ cup Homogenized Spry, ½ cup unsweetened prune juice, ¼ cup
      milk, 1 teaspoon vanilla

Beat ... 200 strokes (2 min. by hand or on mixer at low speed). Scrape
      bowl and spoon or beater.

Add ... ¼ cup milk, 2 unbeaten eggs

Beat ... 200 strokes (same as above)

Pour ... into 2 Sprycoated 8″ round layer pans 1½″ deep

Bake ... until cake tests done

Cool ... and remove from pans, see inside back cover.

Spread ... Prune Whip Frosting (p. 11) between layers and on sides and
      top.




                          Marble Cake Supreme


    [Illustration: Marble Cake Supreme]

  Oven temperature: 375°F. (moderately hot)
  Baking time: 60-70 min.
  Yield: 1 large tube cake

Sift ... 2¾ cups sifted cake flour, 1¾ cups sugar, 2 teaspoons double
      acting baking powder[3], 1½ teaspoons salt into mixing bowl

Add ... 1 cup Homogenized Spry, ¾ cup milk, 2 teaspoons vanilla, 1
      unbeaten egg

Beat ... 200 strokes (2 min. by hand or on mixer at low speed). Scrape
      bowl and spoon or beater.

Add ... 2 unbeaten eggs, 1 unbeaten egg yolk

Beat ... 200 strokes (same as above)

Put ... ⅓ of batter in a smaller mixing bowl

Add ... ¾ teaspoon cinnamon, ¹/₁₆ teaspoon cloves, ⅜ teaspoon allspice,
      ⅜ teaspoon nutmeg, ¾ tablespoon cocoa to ⅓ of batter

Spoon ... both batters alternately by tablespoonfuls into Spry-coated
      8½″ tube pan

Run ... spatula through batters several times to marble

Bake ... until cake tests done

Cool ... and remove from pans, see inside back cover.

Spread ... Lemon cream Icing (p. 12) on sides and top.




                        Fudge Frosted Layer Cake


    [Illustration: Fudge Frosted Layer Cake]

  Oven temperature: 375°F. (moderately hot)
  Baking time: 25-35 min.
  Yield: 2 square or round 8″ layers

Sift ... 2 cups sifted cake flour, 1⅓ cups sugar, 2½ teaspoons double
      acting baking powder[4], 1 teaspoon salt into mixing bowl

Add ... ½ cup Homogenized Spry

Combine ... 1 cup less 2 tablespoons milk, 1½ teaspoons vanilla

Add ... ⅔ of combined milk and vanilla

Beat ... 200 strokes (2 min. by hand or on mixer at low speed). Scrape
      bowl and spoon or beater.

Add ... remaining milk and vanilla, 2 unbeaten eggs

Beat ... 200 strokes (same as above)

Pour ... into 2 square 8″x8″x2″ Spry-coated pans or 2 round 8″ pans 1¼″
      deep

Bake ... until cake tests done

Cool ... and remove from pans, see inside back cover.

Spread ... Chocolate Fudge Frosting (p. 11) between layers and on top
      and sides.

Serve ... with walnut halves.




                     “Happy Birthday” Coconut Cake


    [Illustration: “Happy Birthday” Coconut Cake]

  Oven temperature: 375°F. (moderately hot)
  Baking time: 25-30 min
  Yield: two 9″ round layers

Sift ... 2¼ cups sifted cake flour, 1½ cups sugar, 2½ teaspoons double
      acting baking powder[5], 1 teaspoon salt into mixing bowl

Add ... ¾ cup Homogenized Spry, ½ cup milk, 1 teaspoon orange extract, ½
      teaspoon almond extract, 1 unbeaten egg

Beat ... 200 strokes (2 min. by hand or on mixer at low speed). Scrape
      bowl and spoon or beater.

Add ... ¼ cup milk, 2 unbeaten eggs

Beat ... 200 strokes (same as above)

Pour ... into 2 round 9″ Sprycoated layer pans 1½″ deep.

Bake ... until cake tests done

Cool ... and remove from pans, see inside back cover

Spread ... Best Seven-Minute Frosting (p. 12) between layers, sprinkle
      with ¼ cup coconut, and spread remaining frosting on sides and top
      of cake.

Pat ... 1 cup coconut onto sides of cake

Write ... Happy Birthday across top of cake with pink frosting. Place
      pink candles in holders around rim of cake.




                         Twin Applesauce Loaves


    [Illustration: Twin Applesauce Loaves]

  Oven temperature: 350°F. (moderate)
  Baking time: 1 hour and 25-35 min.
  Yield: 2 small loaf cakes or 1 large tube cake

Sift ... 2 cups sifted cake flour, 1½ cups sugar, 1½ teaspoons soda, 1½
      teaspoons salt, 2 tablespoons cocoa, ½ teaspoon cinnamon, ½
      teaspoon cloves, ½ teaspoon nutmeg, ½ teaspoon allspice into
      mixing bowl

Add ...       teaspoon cloves, ½ teaspoon nutmeg, ½ teaspoon allspice into ½ 
       teaspoon cloves, ½ teaspoon nutmeg, ½ teaspoon allspice into
cup Homogenized Spry, 1½ cups unsweetened applesauce[6]

Beat ... 200 strokes (2 min. by hand or on mixer at low speed). Scrape
      bowl and spoon or beater.

Add ... 2 unbeaten eggs

Beat ... 200 strokes (same as above)

Stir in ... ¾ cup cut-up dates, ¾ cup chopped raisins, ⅓ cup diced
      citron, ¾ cup chopped nuts

Pour ... into 2 small Sprycoated loaf pans, 4″x 6½″x2¾″ (or into 8½″
      tube pan). On top of 1 loaf, sprinkle mixture of 2 tablespoons
      chopped nuts and 1 tablespoon brown sugar.

Bake ... until cake tests done

Cool ... and remove from pans, see inside back cover.

Spread ... Creamy Vanilla Frosting (p. 12) on sides and top of plain
      loaf.




                        Bonnie Butterscotch Cake


    [Illustration: Bonnie Butterscotch Cake]

  Oven temperature: 375°F. (moderately hot)
  Baking time: 25-35 min.
  Yield: 2 round 9″ layers

Mix ... 1 cup firmly packed light brown sugar, ¼ cup butter or
      margarine, ¼ cup milk in saucepan

Place ... on low heat and bring to boil, stirring constantly. Boil
      gently until a small amount of mixture forms a hard ball in cold
      water (250°F.), stirring often. Remove from heat.

Stir in ... gradually 1¼ cups scalded milk. Cool.

Sift ... 2¾ cups sifted cake flour, 1 cup firmly packed light brown
      sugar, 3½ teaspoons double acting baking powder[7], ¾ teaspoon
      salt into mixing bowl

Add ... ⅔ cup Homogenized Spry, ¾ of the cooled butterscotch mixture, 1
      unbeaten egg, 1 teaspoon vanilla

Beat ... 250 strokes (2½ min. by hand or on mixer at low speed). Scrape
      bowl and spoon or beater.

Add ... remaining butterscotch mixture, 2 unbeaten eggs

Beat ... 250 strokes (same as above)

Pour ... into 2 round 9″ Sprycoated layer pans 1½″ deep

Bake ... until cake tests done

Cool ... and remove from pans, see inside back cover.

Spread ... Butterscotch Frosting (p. 12) between layers. Sprinkle with ¼
      cup chopped pecans. Spread remaining frosting on sides and top.

Decorate ... with pecan halves.




                         Triple-Tier Party Cake


    [Illustration: Triple-Tier Party Cake]

  Oven temperature: 375°F. (moderately hot)
  Baking time: 22-27 min.
  Yield: three 9″ round layers

Sift ... 2¾ cups sifted cake flour, 1¾ cups sugar, 2 teaspoons double
      acting baking powder[8], 1½ teaspoons salt into mixing bowl

Add ... 1 cup Homogenized Spry, ¾ cup milk, 1 teaspoon almond extract, 1
      teaspoon orange extract, 1 unbeaten egg

Beat ... 200 strokes (2 min. by hand or on mixer at low speed). Scrape
      bowl and spoon or beater.

Add ... 2 unbeaten eggs, 1 unbeaten egg yolk

Beat ... 200 strokes (same as above)

Stir in ... 1 cup finely cut coconut

Pour ... into 3 round 9″ Sprycoated layer pans 1¼″ deep

Bake ... until cake tests done

Cool ... and remove from pans, see inside back cover.

Spread ... Fantasia Frosting (p. 12) between layers and on sides and
      top, making graceful little peaks.




                           Hawaiian Lei Cake


    [Illustration: Hawaiian Lei Cake]

  Oven temperature: 360°F. (moderate)
  Baking time: 20-25 min.
  Yield: two 9″ round layers

Sift ... 2¼ cups sifted cake flour, 1½ cups sugar, 4 teaspoons double
      acting baking powder[9], 1 teaspoon salt into mixing bowl

Add ... ½ cup Homogenized Spry, ¾ cup milk, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1
      teaspoon orange extract

Beat ... 200 strokes (2 min. by hand or on mixer at low speed). Scrape
      bowl and spoon or beater.

Add ... 4 unbeaten egg whites, ¼ cup milk

Beat ... 200 strokes (same as above)

Pour ... into 2 round 9″ Sprycoated layer pans 1½″ deep

Bake ... until cake tests done

Cool ... and remove from pans, see inside back cover.

Spread ... Waikiki Frosting (p. 11) between layers and on sides and top
      of cake.

Decorate ... with a “lei” made by arranging bits of pineapple, candied
      orange peel, and citron around top of cake.




                     Marshmallow Devil’s Food Cake


    [Illustration: Marshmallow Devil’s Food Cake]

  Oven temperature: 350°F. (moderate)
  Baking time: 40-50 min.
  Yield: 1 large oblong loaf cake

Sift ... 1½ cups sifted cake flour, 1¼ cups sugar, ½ cup cocoa, 1¼
      teaspoons soda, ¼ teaspoon cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon salt into
      mixing bowl

Add ... ⅔ cup Homogenized Spry, ¾ cup milk, 1 teaspoon vanilla

Beat ... 200 strokes (2 min. by hand or on mixer at low speed). Scrape
      bowl and spoon or beater.

Add ... ¼ cup milk, 2 unbeaten eggs

Beat ... 200 strokes (same as above)

Pour ... into oblong 8″x12″x2″ Sprycoated pan

Bake ... until cake tests done

Cool ... and remove from pan, see inside back cover.

Spread ... Marshmallow Frosting (p. 11) on sides and top, using short
      strokes to create attractive irregular effect.

Mark ... with knife into squares

Decorate ... alternate squares with 2 pecan halves.




                                   10
                           Luscious Frostings
            made to glorify the 10 Cakes Husbands like best


    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


                        Chocolate Fudge Frosting

Combine in a saucepan 3 oz. chocolate, cut fine, 2¼ cups sugar, ¾ cup
milk, 6 tablespoons Homogenized Spry, 3 tablespoons butter or margarine,
1½ tablespoons corn sirup, and ¼ teaspoon salt. Bring slowly to a full
rolling boil, stirring constantly, and boil _briskly_ for 2 min. (On a
rainy or very humid day, boil mixture 2¼ min.) Cool to lukewarm, add 1½
teaspoons vanilla and beat until creamy and thick enough to spread.
Yield: frosting for tops and sides of two square 8″ layers.


                          Prune Whip Frosting

Mix thoroughly in top of double boiler 2 unbeaten egg whites, 1 cup
brown sugar, firmly packed, ½ cup granulated sugar, ⅛ teaspoon salt, and
5 tablespoons unsweetened prune juice. Put over rapidly boiling water
and beat constantly with rotary egg beater until mixture will hold a
peak (7 min.). Remove from hot water, and beat until cool and thick
enough to spread. Stir in 2 teaspoons lemon juice, 6 cooked prunes,
drained and cut in small pieces, 2 tablespoons almonds, blanched,
chopped, and toasted. (Optional: Frosted cake may be sprinkled with 2
more tablespoons of almonds.) Yield: frosting for tops and sides of two
8″ layers.


                            Waikiki Frosting

Mix thoroughly in top of double boiler 2 unbeaten egg whites, 1½ cups
sugar, 5 tablespoons canned pineapple sirup (drained from crushed
pineapple), 1 teaspoon light corn sirup and ⅛ teaspoon salt. Set over
rapidly boiling water and beat constantly with rotary egg beater until
mixture will hold a peak (7 min.). Remove from hot water, add ½ teaspoon
vanilla, ½ teaspoon orange extract and beat till cool and thick enough
to spread. Fold in ½ cup crushed pineapple. Yield: frosting for tops and
sides of two 9″ layers.


                          Marshmallow Frosting

Mix thoroughly in top of double boiler 2 unbeaten egg whites, 1½ cups
sugar, 3 tablespoons light corn sirup, 4 tablespoons water, ¼ teaspoon
cream of tartar, and ⅛ teaspoon salt. Set over rapidly boiling water and
beat constantly with rotary egg beater until mixture will hold a peak (7
min.). Remove from hot water, add 1 teaspoon vanilla, and beat until
cool and thick enough to spread. Just before spreading, fold in 1 cup
marshmallows, cut in quarters. Yield: frosting for top and sides of 8″ x
12″ x 2″ loaf.


                       Best Seven-minute Frosting

Mix thoroughly in top of double boiler 2 unbeaten egg whites, 1½ cups
sugar, 5 tablespoons cold water, 1 teaspoon light corn sirup and ⅛
teaspoon salt. Set over rapidly boiling water and beat constantly with
rotary egg beater until mixture will hold a peak (7 min.). Remove from
hot water, add ½ teaspoon orange extract, ½ teaspoon almond extract and
2 marshmallows, cut in pieces. Beat until cool and thick enough to
spread. Yield: frosting for tops and sides of two 9″ layers.


                          Tawny Satin Frosting

Mix thoroughly in top of double boiler 2 unbeaten egg whites, 1 cup
granulated sugar, ½ cup brown sugar, firmly packed, 4 tablespoons water,
3 tablespoons dark corn sirup, ¼ teaspoon cream of tartar, and ⅛
teaspoon salt. Set over rapidly boiling water and beat constantly with
rotary egg beater until mixture will hold a peak (7 min.). Remove from
hot water, add 1 teaspoon vanilla, and beat until cool and thick enough
to spread. Yield: frosting for tops and sides of two 9″ layers.


                           Lemon Cream Icing

In a mixing bowl blend 2 tablespoons Homogenized Spry, 1 tablespoon
butter or margarine, ⅛ teaspoon salt, ¼ teaspoon grated lemon rind and 1
tablespoon lemon juice. Beat in ½ cup sifted confectioners’ sugar. Add 5
tablespoons scalded light cream and 2½ cups sifted confectioners’ sugar,
alternately, beating well after each addition. Tint delicately with a
few drops of yellow coloring, if desired. Yield: frosting for top and
sides of 8½″ tube cake.


                           Fantasia Frosting

Mix thoroughly in top of double boiler 2 unbeaten egg whites, 1½ cups
sugar, 4 tablespoons cold water, 3 tablespoons light corn sirup and ⅛
teaspoon salt. Set over rapidly boiling water and beat constantly with
rotary egg beater until mixture will hold a peak (7 min.). Remove from
hot water, add 1 teaspoon vanilla, ½ teaspoon almond extract, and beat
until cool and thick enough to spread. Fold in 1 cup mixed candied
cherries, citron, and dates, cut very fine, and 1 cup pecans, chopped
fine and toasted. Yield: frosting for sides and tops of three 9″ layers.


                         Butterscotch Frosting

In a saucepan mix well 2 cups light brown sugar, firmly packed, 1 cup
granulated sugar, 2 tablespoons light corn sirup, ¾ cup milk, ¼ cup
Homogenized Spry, ¼ cup butter or margarine and ¼ teaspoon salt. Bring
slowly to a full rolling boil, stirring constantly, and boil _briskly_ 2
minutes. (Boil 2½ min. on a rainy or very humid day.) Cool to lukewarm,
add 1 teaspoon vanilla, and beat until creamy and thick enough to
spread. Yield: frosting for tops and sides of two 9″ layers.


                        Creamy Vanilla Frosting

Blend together 1 tablespoon Homogenized Spry, 1 tablespoon butter or
margarine, ¾ teaspoon vanilla, and ¼ teaspoon salt. Beat in ½ cup sifted
confectioners’ sugar. Add, alternately, 1½ cups sifted confectioners’
sugar and 3 tablespoons scalded light cream, beating well after each
addition. Yield: frosting for top and sides of 4″ x 6½″ x 2¾″ loaf.




                            Now for the fun!


    [Illustration: _Frosting Tips_]

  _Here are the crowning touches—the simple, easy ways to add glamour
                             to your cakes_

Designing and executing a pretty decorative finish for a handsome cake
is pure fun—and certainly worth the trouble in the extra pleasure that
it gives. Do it when you won’t be disturbed and remember planning is
half the battle. If the plan is elaborate, draw it on paper first and
then mark the important spots with toothpicks set lightly in place after
the cake is frosted. They will serve as guides and insure even spacing.

Be sure cake is thoroughly cold (see inside back cover) before starting
to frost. Brush off loose crumbs and trim off over-browned or ragged
edges. Have decorations ready to use.


                          How to frost a cake

For layer cakes: Turn the bottom layer from the rack onto the cake
plate, bottom side up, and spread some of the frosting with a spatula
evenly over the surface. Top it with the second layer, bottom side down,
with edges even. Frost sides of cake first, using light up-and-down
strokes and bringing the frosting up and just over the top rim of the
cake. Pile the remaining frosting on top and spread out to rim, making
graceful swirls or soft ridges according to the type of frosting. With a
seven-minute frosting, attractive little peaks can be made by lifting
the frosting gently with a spatula. For certain types of decoration,
like lettering, a smooth frosted top is best. Avoid “puttering” with
frosting, as overworking ruins its appearance.

                            * * * * * * * *

For tube or loaf cake: Place cake top or bottom side up, as preferred.
Frost sides, then top, following suggestions for frosting layer cakes.


                       To adorn the frosted cake

For decorating, use good-to-eat ingredients, chosen to go with the cake
in color, texture, and character. Let the decorations be simple but
artistic and effective. For example, the ingredients commonly found in
the kitchen cupboard make beautiful decorations when used correctly.

Coconut—For an all-over sprinkle of coconut, use the canned moist
shredded coconut with long glistening white shreds. Pat it on while the
frosting is still soft. To tint, add a few drops of food coloring, then
rub between the palms of the hands to color it evenly. For a rainbow
effect, tint separate lots of coconut pink, green, yellow, and violet,
and then mix them. To tint and flavor, rub 1 cup coconut with 8 fine-cut
maraschino cherries or with the grated rind of 1 orange. For some cakes,
golden toasted coconut is effective.

To toast coconut, spread a thin layer in a shallow pan, toast in
moderate oven (350°F.) until a delicate brown, stirring often to toast
evenly.

                             * * * * * * *

    [Illustration: {decorated cake frosting}]

Chocolate—Striking effects can be obtained on a frosted cake with melted
chocolate (see directions for Chocolate Rapture Cake, p. 1). For
decorative dribbles or lettering, melt together over hot water ½ oz.
unsweetened chocolate and ½ teaspoon Spry. Cool before using. For enough
chocolate to cover the entire top of the cake and let it drip down the
sides in interesting icicle formations, double these quantities. Melted
chocolate can also be used for lettering as in “Happy Birthday”
treatment. White frostings or delicately tinted pink or green mint
frostings are especially pretty with melted chocolate decorations.
Halloween black cats or witches for the top of a frosted cake can be
made as follows: Draw or trace an outline of the desired shape on waxed
paper, fill in the outline with melted chocolate. Put in refrigerator to
harden, loosen from paper, and place on cake. Make other designs
similarly.

    [Illustration: {decorated cake frosting}]

A lacy filigree effect can be made on a white-frosted cake as follows:
Melt ½ oz. chocolate with ½ teaspoon Spry. Mark 5 circles around top of
cake and pour in chocolate. With a pointed knife, make 8 evenly spaced
strokes toward the edge of the cake, then between them make 8 upward
strokes toward the center, to get web effect (see illustration).

                            * * * * * * * *

Thin curls or shavings of sweetened or unsweetened chocolate make
interesting decoration. They can be made with a vegetable peeler or a
sharp knife. Semisweet chocolate bits can be used as push-ins on a soft
frosting to form letters or designs.

                            * * * * * * * *

Nuts—Use perfect walnut or pecan halves for making interesting patterns
on frosted cakes, pressing them in while the frosting is soft. Nuts can
be tipped or tilted into frosting with artistic effect. For making nut
borders, lines, or designs, cut the nuts in pieces; do not chop the nuts
as this makes unattractive “dust.” Brazil nuts can be “curled” by
softening them first in hot water, then cutting in very thin slices or
“curls.” Blanched almonds can be used for making patterns; sprinkles of
toasted slivered almonds are attractive on beige-colored frostings.
Sprinkling the sides of the cake with chopped nuts gives an attractive
finish.

    [Illustration: {decorated cake frosting}]

Fruits and Peels—Fruits (canned, candied, dried, or fresh) can be used
endlessly. Maraschino cherries are especially good for Valentine,
holiday, or party cakes. Cherry halves can be cut to resemble hearts or
flowers, then placed around the rim of a frosted cake. Lengthwise cherry
slices can be arranged to form attractive poinsettias.

Pineapple can be tinted with food coloring, or cut up and arranged in
simple patterns with green citron; crushed pineapple, citron, and orange
peel can be used to make an unusual “flower lei” (p. 9). At
Christmastime, charming holly wreaths and Christmas trees can be
fashioned on frosted cakes with bits of red and green cherries and green
citron. Citron can be colored bright green with green coloring.
Streamers of fine-cut dates, figs, or raisins are pretty on some frosted
cakes, or definite patterns can be made with larger pieces if preferred.

    [Illustration: {decorated cake frosting}]

Candies—Sprinkles of silver or gold dragées are beautiful on cakes with
fluffy white or pastel frostings. Dragées can be used to outline
interlocking hearts for a bridal shower, or to spell out “Happy
Birthday.” Gumdrops, cut in small pieces, can be sprinkled on a white
frosted cake for sparkling color, or arranged to outline a pattern like
a green shamrock for St. Patrick’s Day.

                            * * * * * * * *

Lollipops, canes, all-day-suckers, or stick candy can be crushed and
used as gay color on the frosted sides and for lettering on top of the
cake. Contrasting colors are pretty.

    [Illustration: {decorated cake frosting}]

Those round flat orange patties can be used as jack-o’-lanterns by
making little faces on them with melted chocolate and arranging them on
a chocolate frosted cake for Halloween. Chocolate candy animals standing
lightly on frosted cupcakes delight the children.

Tiny colored sugar flowers can be bought in the 5-and-10 cent store and
these are pretty arranged on cakes with fluffy white or pastel
frostings. For “extra-special” cakes you can buy candied violets or rose
petals to make wreaths of dainty flowers on a frosted cake.

You’ve probably had thoughts of your own as you were reading—of other
materials and other ways to use them. Go to it! Experimenting is half
the fun. Happy decorating!


                         Fancy Frosting Effects

These call for special tools, “boughten” or homemade, and special
frostings. Cake-decorating sets, consisting of a bag or “gun” and
assorted tubes can be purchased in housewares departments. They can be
used for making flowers, designs, or lettering on special-occasion
cakes.

If you haven’t a tube set, a paper cone for decorating can be easily
made. Just cut a 6” square of waxed paper and roll it into a cone. Spoon
in the frosting, filling the cone not more than half full. Fold down the
top edges and cut off the tip at the bottom to make a tiny opening for
the frosting to come through. Then take the cone in left hand, and grasp
its top with right hand, bringing thumb down to about the center.
Pressing down with the thumb forces the frosting down to the tip of the
cone and out through the hole, while your hand directs the movement of
the cone. With a little practice, lovely effects can be obtained.

The best frosting for this purpose is Ornamental Frosting because it is
very stiff, squeezes out ideally, and sets up firm on the cake.


                 _How to make your own Cake Decorator_

    [Illustration: Make a waxed paper cone for each color icing you plan
    to use (see instructions above).]


                          Ornamental Frosting

            (_To use in cake-decorating set or paper cone_)

  2¼ cups confectioners’ sugar
  ⅓ teaspoon cream of tartar
  2 egg whites, unbeaten
  ⅓ teaspoon vanilla

Sift sugar and cream of tartar through very fine sieve.... Add egg
whites and mix with slotted spoon or wire whip.... Continue to mix for
3-4 min.... Add vanilla.... Beat 8-20 min. longer with spoon or 3-4 min.
on mixer at high speed.... Frosting should be so stiff that a sharp
ridge is held when the tip of a knife is drawn through.... Frosting may
be tinted with a few drops of food coloring, if desired.... Yield: 1½
cups.


                             Spry Pan-Coat

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

Prepare cake pans for baking by rubbing them with Spry Pan-coat.

Mix ... ½ cup Homogenized Spry ¼ cup all-purpose flour

Use ... for “greasing” cake pans, baking sheets, etc. Gives even, brown
      crust—prevents sticking.

Store ... Pan-coat in covered dish in cupboard for handy use—can be made
      ahead and stored till wanted. Need not be refrigerated.


                    How to tell when a cake is done

The cake recipes in this booklet specify a baking range in minutes
within which the cake should finish baking and be “done.” However,
before removing the cake from the oven, test it for doneness by touching
the top of the cake in the center lightly with finger. If the cake
springs back leaving no impression, the cake is done. Also, insert a
toothpick or wire cake tester in the center, and if it comes out clean,
the cake is done. If any dough adheres to the tester, longer baking is
needed.

    [Illustration: Cakes come out of pans readily with Spry Pan-coat (p.
    16) and proper cooling.]


                       Care of cake after baking

When cake has finished baking, remove it from the oven and put it on a
wire cake rack, in the pan. This permits circulation of air around it
and insures even cooling. Let it stand 10-15 min. Then gently loosen the
cake from the sides of the pan with a spatula or knife, working
carefully to avoid breaking edge. Place another rack on top of the pan,
turn over, and lift off the pan. Then turn cake right side up on rack to
finish cooling. When the cake is thoroughly cold, it is ready to be
frosted. For frosting recipes and frosting suggestions, see pp. 11-16.




            You can bake a BETTER Cake with Homogenized Spry


    [Illustration: Homogenized Spry]

Dip your spoon into Homogenized Spry—see how much lighter and fluffier
it is than other shortenings—how easy to work with. It’s pre-creamed,
easier to blend with dry ingredients. And Spry is the only kind of
shortening that is specially made to mix with the liquids your cake
recipes call for. So you can see why Spry, with this special
blending-action, makes any cake a better cake. You can count on it every
time—you’ll bake a better cake, be a better cook, with Homogenized Spry.




                               Footnotes


[1]With a tartrate baking powder, use 1 teaspoon.

[2]With a tartrate baking powder, use 3½ teaspoons.

[3]With a tartrate baking powder, use 3 teaspoons.

[4]With a tartrate baking powder, use 4 teaspoons.

[5]With a tartrate baking powder, use 4 teaspoons.

[6]If sweetened applesauce is used, use only 1¼ cups sugar.

[7]With a tartrate baking powder, use 5½ teaspoons.

[8]With a tartrate baking powder, use 3 teaspoons.

[9]With a tartrate baking powder, use 5½ teaspoons.


    [Illustration: Back cover]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of Project Gutenberg's 10 Cakes Husbands Like Best, by Anonymous

